---
layout: post
title:  "I am the Quinkin"
date:   2015-09-04 17:07:46
categories: jekyll update
---

I am the quinkin.

I am the spirit quinkin and my fingers are long white trees, and moisture drips from the leaves of these long white trees. I am the spirit quinkin and I stride gargantuan over the red barren waste, and the languorous wind is my medium. I suggest queer notions with it. I am the understated whisperer of ideas high into the blue and shining wilderness sky, and I drip feed moisture through my swaying dangled fingertips to the hopeless mortals at my feet. They act out their harsh dramas daily, just to keep sucking at the innermost coat of dry air, but I do not understand such things. I am the quinkin.

I am the spirit quinkin and I connect the red, hot red, dusty swirling earth with the clean, cool clean, searing true sky. I leave a root-meadow in my footsteps, I sign the soil and sigh as my signature exits in crawling arches.  I feel every footstep intimately; with every step I lose something and with every step my great hairy limbs, roped in russet bark, creak and snap, and the people hear thunder. The passage of time depletes me, my bulk will one day be exhausted, one day in the ineffable future. Yes the jangling earth draws me slowly out of myself, and yet I choose perpetual motion, I choose to lose the stuff of my person in order to sustain them. I have this instinct, my only emotion: feed my children through the dry desert dirt. I am the quinkin.

I am the spirit quinkin and my memory drifts from the future to the past and then from side to side. In a side-chamber of my recollections I can spy a weird artifact. It is the feeling of love, and I knew it was love because in this cold upper atmosphere the scent of love is clear and distinct. You cannot smell it if you scuttle too low. There was a time when instead of stepping across the sands I suddenly stepped into myself, and I was projected onto the entrails of the barren landscape. There was a time when I stepped into the form of a mortal and found a love, I think. Who was she? She was Agatha, resting on her haunches in the desolate red silence, breasts pendulous and slim at the shoulders. She was Agatha, and before she turned her gaze on me she recognized me behind my disguise, and she pledged herself to me before our eyes snapped together. And I was the spirit quinkin, and she was Agatha, and we fucked hard there on the dead, wretched earth. And there I received my motive: and then I stood up to push my arboreal limbs into the earth, exhume the life I spawned until finally my body was all strung out upon the road. I am the quinkin.

I am the spirit quinkin and my fur is russet bark, and daily I draw down the black night to bathe. I bathe in the infinite blackness, the ice cool, bleak frozen black wastes where the air is purified of earthly fumes, and it soothes my monolithic limbs. I am the spirit quinkin, and daily, with my dripping fingers I draw down the curtain of night, and the moisture on my flanks turns to hoar frost to form a furzy tundra. And the hoar frost speckles my body in a host of shimmering beacons, and the people see starlight. And the people give thanks to all kinds of strange beings they have never seen, beasts of the imagination, for putting lights into the sky. They never suspect my role in this spectacle; I am covert and surely unrecognizable. I am the quinkin.

…Agatha, who died long ago. Agatha, you had many children, and their children had many children, and you did not survive to see them. Agatha, your breath gave out and your body vanished in the hot cracked red earth, and I feel every particle of you as I walk, pumped through my legs, nourishing me even as I slowly give out. And you are scattered far and wide across the red dunes, and even in your life you dissipated, for your parts are also in other times, and like breadcrumbs they form a path that winds sinuously through the plenum. Agatha, you are in other people, and I take gargantuan strides to feed them through the earth, and they suckle on the paltry moisture that drips from my fingers. And my fingers are long white eucalypts.

I am the quinkin.
