---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to Rob: Part I"
date:   2019-04-20 21:36:00
categories: literature
---

You may have heard rumors that the guitarist of the band called SLON is not altogether human, and you may be interested to know in what way he diverges from the rest of us. It is true – I believe I have glimpsed his true nature, and it lies somewhere in between the phenomenal realm that we usually think of as nature, and the shady realm of things that lurk behind the plenum of shape and color and noise.

We are unfortunately distracted by things as they appear and concern ourselves primarily with this, as it provides such rich pickings for our senses. We are awash with information from the world as appearance and therefore cannot properly begin to imagine what generates these appearances. If one tries to do this, one eventually ends up with the entities that physicists use to describe nature – atoms, quarks, electrons and so forth. Yes, we can predict the outcomes of experiments in terms of these entities, but our most accurate theories ask us to imagine them in terms of fuzzy waves of probability amplitude – not something you see every day. If one then commits to the existence of these entities, one still grounds their existence with experimental data, i.e. one prods the world and quantifies its response. Most people working in the physical sciences choose to halt at this point, satisfied with the bare entities that can be built into a mathematical model and then used to predict the outcomes of experiments. Our conceptual apparatus, and consequently our language, is grounded in physical experience. If you meander too far from the physical, you start to lose the words to describe what you are talking about. The pool of available concepts dries up.

History is littered with efforts to frame the plenum, to provide a general metaphysical framework from which nature emerges. Immanuel Kant, Gottfried Leibniz, great thinkers and physicists in their own right, tangled with this problem. Theologians have also waded into the debate with characteristic ignorance. Consider for example the philosopher al-Ghazali, who was uninterested even in simple mechanistic explanations and denied the existence of any physical law by postulating God’s constant direct intervention as the only explanation of what we perceive. I reject this sort of fatalism. It is not mystical, but intellectually vacuous to say ‘God did it’, whatever happens. It betrays a lack of curiosity into the basic mechanisms that we know give a beautiful underlying structure to the world. It provides us only with a tame excuse to give up on science, and science has been our only means of making non-arbitrary (i.e. accurate) predictions beyond simple induction.

I digress. Let us get to the point. Recent events have inspired me to make my own contribution to metaphysics, which I believe will be somewhat conclusive. In my view, it is now beyond doubt that the glue conjoining the phenomenal realm to the noumenal is none other than Rob, guitarist of SLON. He is an extra-physical being, i.e. he has parts in the non-physical section of reality, like an iceberg with parts both in the open air and beneath the ocean surface. Like an iceberg, the vast bulk of Rob lies out of sight, and his other parts explain him just as the invisible part of the iceberg explains the small island of translucent ice visible to land-dwellers. You probably want to know the evidence I can adduce for this. If so, please read what follows with an open mind. You must first clear your head of any monotheistic clutter or prior assumptions about the true nature of things.

It was about six months ago when I made my startling discovery about Rob. He was living in Clapham Common at the time, while I lived a little to the North, in a small room in Earl’s Court. It was quite convenient for me to cycle across the Thames to Rob’s place, and so we arranged to meet up for a bit of songwriting and tea-drinking. Adam - the bassist of the band - unfortunately couldn’t make the practice as he was in Germany, so I resolved to just show Rob the guitar part for a new song called 'Chicky Bird Claw'. It was a Saturday. The air was crisp with that cold sharpness that makes the springtime light so beautiful in London. People had begun to leave their warmest coats at home, the high street on the King’s Road was awash with smart spoiled Chelsea kids and a perfumery was offering free perfume samples to pedestrians. On the South side of Battersea Bridge I cycled through leafy residential areas and past gentrified pubs, where locals passionately discussed their map collections and the weather.

Finally I reached Rob’s place, a flat on the third floor of a new housing development. I rang the buzzer for number 23, and was let in with no questions from the intercom. When I entered, I found Rob’s flatmate Gordon, but no Rob. Gordon looked dazed or drugged, and he sleepily explained to me that Rob had left the natural universe for a while and if I wanted to play music with him I would have to somehow bring him back. When I opened the door to Rob’s bedroom, I perceived an ivory-colored ladder, about two feet across with fat cylindrical rungs. I looked up and noticed that the ceiling had disappeared, and that the ladder soared up into a black dot centered in the canvas of the sky. Without hesitation I dropped my rucksack to the floor and began to climb.

Up I climbed, out of the plenum and on towards the black dot in the sky. I soon established a steady climbing rhythm, as the rungs were spaced optimally for my stride height. Without effort I pulled myself up, so that I fancied I was underwater, pulling myself downwards against the buoyancy of my own fat. And dreamy aeons passed, and the strangest events of my life were replayed in my mind as I climbed up, up towards the widening black pinprick. I came to terms with many things during this climb - the rhythm of the passing ladder rungs seemed to scoop uncomfortable memories out from the stuffy depths of my mind and hold them before me for a second, like the blades of a mill catching water.

After interminable climbing through this homogeneous purgatory, I shuddered as a great chill wind came sweeping down, sweeping unannounced from the impending cavity above me. Shivering with the bitter cold, I finally pushed my head through the terminus of the ladder – it was a semi-permeable, circular film composed of some sticky black substance that I have as yet been unable to identify - and was almost blinded by the whiteness of the scene. I spat. The spit solidified in mid-air and fell like a rock onto the ground. The spittle in my mouth began to grate with balls of hail. My eyes twinged with pain as the aqueous humour ran out of them and froze into little chutes of ice upon my cheeks. This was a bleak and desolate place, a featureless zone, a lifeless, wind-haunted graveyard of ice and snow. The sky was as white as the earth; the horizon an unbroken blank drapery, and, squint as I might, through all of this monochrome glare I noted not a feature, hillock or undulation that indicated Rob could be here. The only item of interest here was the ladder, whose ivory hue stood out darkly like a single streak of paint on this frozen canvas, and I fought the urge to curl up at its base, curl up and lie down and sleep, just for a short while…

No! Sleep becomes death in a landscape so cold, sleep was the enemy! I had to climb. And so it was that, no more than five minutes after my arrival, I grasped the smooth ladder like an old friend and together we moved up and out of this horrible wasteland.
