---
layout: post
title:  Hordes in the Cold Place
date:   2015-09-04 16:03:15
categories: lyrics
---

**Verse**

The hordes are in the cold place, <br>
They glibber in my ear, <br>
A black iron grille divides us still, <br>
But they can smell my fear.

The hordes are in the cold place, <br>
We keep them out with pine, <br>
My loved ones huddle round the fire, <br>
The hordes, they scratch and whine.

**Bridge**

**Chorus 1**

Oh, they hear my heartbeat, <br>
They hear my vessels booming.

Oh, they need the fresh meat, <br>
They know the feast is looming.

**Bridge**

**Verse**

Beneath the hut, a staircase  <br>
Leads to miles of corridor, <br>
And at the end are caged lion-things <br>
That gnaw their bellies raw.

And I can fly in this place, <br>
I perch atop their cell, <br>
The lion-things are tortured <br>
And they call the hordes to hell.

The hordes pour from the cold place, <br>
Descend, my loves, descend, <br>
My loves are chased by grizzle-bears <br>
Down every twist and bend.

**Bridge**

**Chorus 2**

Oh, they hunt the quarry, <br>
The raptorhood impels them.

Run, or you’ll be sorry, <br>
Hot blood, hot blood propels them.

Hot from the bone, the hordes they moan <br>
And their lips are moist…

Oh, your people flounder, <br>
The tiger takes the hindmost.

Oh, the hordes surround her, <br>
The one you love the most is...
Gone...

**Bridge**

**Verse**

The hordes came from the cold place, <br>
Their forked tongues flick the air, <br>
In waves they pour with clicking claws <br>
And yellow eyes that stare.

Now to my stuffy rookery, <br>
I swoop and close my eyes, <br>
But the glibbering grows louder <br>
As I hear the legions rise…

By Michael Ridley

