---
layout: post
title:  "Last Voyage of Cook"
date:   2015-09-04 17:04:14
categories: lyrics
---
**Intro**<br>

**Verse 1**<br>

The Greenwich light is dappled, it reminds me <br>
Of sun-swung seas, <br>
Swinging softly in my muscle memories... <br>
I swagger with my sailor’s gait  <br>
From dinner to soiree, <br>
“Our Cook’s the man who mapped the world”,<br>
The London dailies say.<br>
The Earl of Sandwich dines me, he says<br>
“Cook must you resign?<br>
We have ships bound for the North-West Passage,<br>
Ask, and they’ll be thine.”<br>

**Bridge**<br>

I can’t stand it, so I stand and fix the party with my eyes...<br>
“My Lords:<br>
If so commanded I will undertake to lead this enterprise.”<br>

**Chorus 1**<br>

Bring me my guns, bring me my sextant...<br>
Bring me the iceberg frosted waves...<br>
Bring me my wilderness of water...<br>
It’s a wilderness of graves.<br>

Tis I...<br>
Tis I...<br>

**Verse 2**<br>

Elizabeth my love, I leave you staring from the docks,<br>
The Resolution makes for Tonga, where I thread her through the rocks.<br>
Aye, there this Yorkshire farm boy is the supreme autocrat,<br>
Harass me at me South Sea throne; I’ll lash ye with me cat.<br>
They steal from me, the natives stir, the Old One from his sleep.<br>

**Bridge**<br>

I’ll slice the biceps on their arms...<br>
Til’ their bone marrows weep...<br>

**Chorus 2**<br>

Stand away, up North I pelt, <br>
A broth of Nootka Injun ice-melt <br>
Broiling...broiling...<br>

Break upon the Chukchi Sea, <br>
Escape her frigid fingers coyly<br>
Coiling...coiling...<br>

We-ell the ship was spoiling so I pushed her hard to Hawaii,<br>
There the natives sang my name out – Orono – and I was a deity...<br>

Tis I...<br>
Tis I...<br>

**Verse 3**<br>

I feasted with King Terreoboo by the whitewashed moon,<br>
He sent us off with accolades, but we returned too soon.<br>
When they stole a wooden cutter, I declared a state of war,<br>
I went to fetch their King for hostage<br>
On that sacred shore...<br>

**Death Sequence**<br>

Of a pearly morning, captain’s coming,<br>
And through the trees I feel the drumming,<br>
From the throng, a lone Hawaiian<br>
Leers grim and shows me iron,<br>
Small shot bounces off his shield,<br>
Mortal man, I am revealed!<br>
A final act, a final scene, <br>
A death for every slow marine,<br>
Retreat with dignity, retreat, ah!<br>
Clubbed to my knees, I falter,<br>
Oh my mind, my skull-swung head,<br>
The dizzy waves are churning red,<br>
The dagger drawn, a neck of knife,<br>
Diverts my air, it drinks my life!<br>

**Bridge**<br>

And I fall face down on the sun-swung seas, they<br>

**Verse 3 Continued**<br>

Stultify, my pumping life, they pull it from my chest...<br>

**Bridge**<br>

I pass to where the gyrfalcons...<br>
And the Gods go to rest...<br>

**Epilogue**<br>

We ate your heart, but no hard feelings, Lono...<br>
Lono, we set your mana free...<br>
When you coming, back to visit, Lono?<br>
Lono, fulfill the prophecy...<br>

**Outro**<br>
